---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: E11: Reflect on smart questions
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-09-08
labels:
  - Technical Essay
---

Based on Raymond’s article about the “smart way” of asking questions on stack overflow versus the “not smart way”, I found one example of each. 
The “smart way” question was as follows; 
What are Null Pointer Exceptions (java.lang.NullPointerException) and what causes them? What methods/tools can be used to determine the cause so that you stop the exception from causing the program to terminate prematurely?
Although it is not exactly the same as asking a coding question it is more of an issue where the user posting it wants to know more about the error and how to prevent it. On top of this since they want to know more about it, they ask a follow up question about how it is preventable. It follows a lot of the checks Raymond describes in his “Before You Ask”, it's not a simple question you can ask google, it’s not something that is normally explained in detail and they specifically want to know how they can see it is going to happen. On top of all of this it is a question that doesn't follow the “not smart way” they put the right tags on the question and it is not posted to many groups as they only tagged Java and NullPointerException. The one thing I will say about this question to me that is not smart is that they started off with “what are Null Pointer Exceptions” which is for one easily searchable and is something that most coders with experience are able to answer and if they are taking a class it is taught most of the time. The question I think is good in this case is the second question where they ask how to determine the case and stop it from happening. 
The “not smart way” question was as follows;
Recently I was looking through some website's code, and saw that every <div> had a class clearfix. After a quick Google search, I learned that it is for IE6 sometimes, but what actually is a clearfix? Could you provide some examples of a layout with a clearfix, compared to a layout without a clearfix?
Although this person says they googled it, it seems like they didn’t google the right things. Since the tags were HTML, css, Layout, cross-browser and clearfix. If you know HTML/CSS div’s are followed by a class however you don’t need a clearfix class. Infact for HTML/CSS you can name the classes whatever you want and as long as the div class is the same as the CSS class, and presuming all the parameters in the CSS work, it should be okay. Also if you search for clearfix on W3Schools there is a page dedicated to what a clearfix is and shows examples of it in the css, as well as side by side comparisons of clearfix compared to formats without clearfix. One of the items Raymond mentions was about “choosing an off topic forum” and in this case “cross-browser” should not be needed in one of the forum tags. Also it is a very elementary question and like mentioned before can be searched fairly easily even if one were to put it into a google search. 
  
